# Business Comunication | Making and receiving phone calls

## Useful expressions
- **Asking to speak to someone**
    - Could I speak to (name)?
    - Is (name) there, please?
- **Identifying the caller / person called**
    - Could I have your name, please?
    - Who's calling, please?
        - This is (name).
- **Given a reason for the call**
    - I'm calling about ...
    - I'm phoning to ....
- **Saying the person is/isn't free**
    - I'm sorry, but (I'm busy at the moment)
    - I'm afraid (he's out of the office)
    - Can I take a message?
- **Leaving a message**
    - Can/Could I leave a message?
    - Can/Could you ask him/her/ to call me back?
- **Finishing**
    - I'll give him/her the message.
    - Thanks for you help/for calling.
    - Speak to you later/tomorrow.

## 1 - What do you say or do in the following situations?

- Somebody calls and asks to speak to your colleague who isn't there.
    - Hi, who' calling?
    - I'm sorry Julia, but Roberto isn't here right now.
    - You can call back later or I can take a message from you to Roberto.
- Somebody calls trying to sell you something.
    - Thanks for explaining about your product, but I have a similar product and for me it's ok for my needs.
    - But I appreciate your time explaining the product to me, if I remember someone who is interested in it, I can forward your contact. (harder to write!!!!)
    - Now I need to get back (return??) to my work to finish some questions, thanks for your time and have a nice day 

## 2 - Listen and match the two conversations to the situations in 1 (audio 2.6).
1. Calling to sell.
2. Calling to speak with a colleague.

## 3 - Match sentences 1-5 with responses a-e. Then listen to conversation 1 again and check.
1. Is Mrs Ackers there, please? **c**
2. Who's calling, please? **a**
3. What can I do for you? **b**
4. Can I call you back tomorrow? **e**
5. Thanks for calling. **d**

- a) This is Simon Ilago from AOS.
- b) I'm calling to offer you a special price on printers.
- c) Speaking.
- d) You're welcome, Goodbye.
- e) Sorry, but I'm out of the office tomorrow.

## 4 - Which sentences and responses in 3 are said by the caller and which by the receiver?
- Caller
    - Sentences
        - Is Mrs Ackers there, please?
        - Can I call you back tomorrow?
    - Responses
        - This is Simon Ilago from AOS.
        - I'm calling to offer you a special price on printers.
        - You're welcome, Goodbye.
- Receiver
    - Sentences
        - Who's calling, please?
        - What can I do for you?
    - Responses
        - Speaking.
        - Sorry, but I'm out of the office tomorrow.
        - Thanks for calling

## 5 - Working with a partner. Take turns to be the caller. Have similar conversations using your own names.
- Call 1: *You want to organize a company visit for a group of foreign business students.*
    - Hi, who could help me to schedule a visit to the company with some students, please?
    - Could you have your name please?
    - Sorry, that's Leandro speaking.
    - Could you have you last name too?
    - Avarenga.
    - Ok, Leandro, I found your registration here and you can schedule your visit for next Wednesday at 8am. Is it good time for you?
    - Sure, we are in 10 people here.
    - Ok, your visit is scheduled, Can I help you with anything else?
    - No, that's it, thank you.
    You're welcome.
- Call 2: You are oferring in-company training courses.
    - cccc
    - dddd

## 6 - Make five questions with the words in the table. Listen to conversation 2.6 again to check and write down the responses. Then practise the questions and responses.
| Aux. verb | Person | Verb | Rest |
|---|---|---|---|
| Could | I <br> you | speak <br> leave <br> have <br> ask <br> tell | Leo to call me back? <br> me what it's about? <br> your name, please? <br> to Leo Keliher, please? <br> a message? |

1. Could I *speak* to Leo Keliher, please?
2. Could I *leave* a message?
3. Could I *have* your name, please?
4. Could you *ask* Leo to call me back?
5. Could you *tell* me what's about?

## 7 - Work with a partner. Have two phone conversations.

### Student A
1. *Ask to speak to Alex. You're an ex-colleague. You want to meet him/her for lunch or dinner tomorrow. You're only in town for one day.*
    - Hello, could I speak to Alex, please?
    - Oh, Alex is not here at moment, would you like to leave a message for him?
    - Sure, tell him that Pedro from Tamarana called him and ask to return the call.
    - Ok, Could you tell me what's about?
    - Sure, I'm an ex-college from the university and I'm staying in town until tomorrow and I'd like to meet him.
    - Ok, Could I have your last name too?
    - It's Silva.
    - Thanks for calling Pedro.
    - You're welcome, thanks
2. *Alex calls you back.*
    - Hello, Could I speak to Pedro please?
    - Hi Alex, Pedro speaking.
    - Hi Pedro, I happy to contact you again, are you free in the evening to have a few beers with me?
    - Sure Alex, we can go to the same bar as always.
    - Nice, see you soon.
    - Bye.

### Student B
1. You work with Alex. He/she is very busy and wants you to answer all phone calls. Ask who's calling and why, and take a message.
2. Now you are Alex. Your colleague gave you the message. Call Student A.

### Talking point

#### Task
1. Your boss is offering you a part-time assistant for 15 hours a week. Make notes about these questions.
    - What parts of your job do you want to give to your new assistant?
        - Durinng the onboarding with work team, it's common we see some stuffs it can be improved, like a documentation, tools, rituals of the team and some useful information on daily. So the new assistant can help me to improve the documentation, calendar and create some material to new people feel supported on engineer onboarding.
    - Who and what does your new assistant need to know?
        - To start the work the new assistante need to know the own team, schedule some 1:1 to get closer to an others members, needs to enter in some channels on Slack and navegate in platform used at Nubank, like Confluence, Miro, Google Docs and Jira.
    - What hours do you want him/her to work?
        - A good part of day for me is the morning, I think this period is good to arrange our material and thougths.
    - How will you use the extra time you now have?
        - To me some extra time is important to study and consolidate my knowledge about the product I work today, some tools used inside Nubank and hep the team to plan the future our product and how it can be integrate in another countris like Mexico and Colombia.
        - It common we have different flow depending on the country we need to execute a financial transactio, like a purchase on debit or simple transfer of money to other people.
2. Your partner is your new assistant. Use your notes in 1. to explain the job to your partner and answer any questions he/she has. Then switch roles.
    - What I need to do?
        - To start we goes to organize our technical documetation, to improve how other people can read and feel confortable to talk we other members o the team and have a good talk, so is necessary we understand why we have our documentation orgnized in this form and how is de proposal to the current folder/topics organization.
        - An important thing is to create a dictionary of words to describe some terms that are said in the team's daily life but are not common outside of it.
    - Who do I need to talk to do this task?
        - Is important to scheduled somes 1:1's with the team to recognize the main materials used by the team.
    - Which part do I need to do first?
        - Select the most used materials on daily and organize by context of work flow.
    - When finished, who should I notify?
        - We can go back to a meeting and review the sources to start a new way to organize these resources.
    - After delivery of my work do I track the results to ensure everything is working properly?
        - After create a prototype with can be used to team is important to show this new way to delivery content and collect some feedbackwith the team, after that we can repeat the cycle to improve, notify team, collect feedback until we have a good structural content to be followed by team